					Java
what is Java?
Java is a programming language and also a platform.
Platform:Any hardware or software environment in which a program runs.
Java has its own runtime environment and API,so it is known as platform.

java -version
javac -version


%JAVA_HOME%\bin

Types of Applications we can develop by using java
we can develop 4 types of applications by using java
1)Desktop application: It is a application which we need to install on every machine.Eg:Antivirus.
2)Web Application:An application that runs on serverside and generates dynamic responses is known as desktop application
Eg:google
3)Enterprise Applications: An application that is distributed in nature,It has high level security.
4)Mobile Applications:An application that is created for mobile device.
JavaME.

James Gosling is Father of java in the year 1995.

JDK,JRE,JVM

javac,java in command prompt?

javac-compiling your code
java-running the code for output(java A)


void print(){


}

JVM(Java Virtual Machine):It is an abstract machine that provides run time environment in which java byte code can be 
executed.
JVM is platform dependent.
JVM performs some tasks 
1)Loads the code(classLoader):it loads the class files
2)Verifies the code(Bytecode Verifier):checks the code fragments for illegal code that can violate access right to the objects
3)Executes the code(Interpreter):reads the byte code stream then executes the instructions
4)Provides runtime environment.


JRE(Java Runtime Environment):
It is used to provide the runtime environment.It is the implementation of JVM.It physically exists.
It contains some set of libraries + other files that JVM uses at run time.

JDK(Java Development Kit):It contains JRE+development tools(javac,java etc..,)



write a program to print
----------
|  @  @ |
|      -     |
-----------
       |
    /    \
       |
     /   \
by using command prompt.

Variables and data type,control statements

Variable:

Variable is name of memory location.


package:never use capital letters in package names

com.cubic.training

domain name:com or net or org
company name:cubic
project name:training
modulename:firstprogram


We have three types of variables available in java.
1)Instance variable:A variable that is declared inside a class and outside a method is known as instance variable.
2)Local variable:A variable that is declared inside a method is known as local variable.
3)static variable:A variable that is declared with static keyword is known as static variable.

DataTypes
It represents different values to be stored in the variable.Two types of DT
1)Primitive DT:
				Object DT(Wrapper classes)
	int		-		Integer
	short		-		Short
	long		-		Long
	double		-		Double
	float		-		Float
	char		-		Character
	boolean		-		Boolean
	byte		-		Byte
2)Non-Primitive DT
Array,String etc..,


Control statements in java?
Controls the order of execution in java program based on data values and conditional ligic
1)Selection statements:if,if-else,switch

if:If executes a block of code only if expression is true,but if expression is false then if block is skipped and execution continues
with rest of the program.

syntax:	if<Conditional expression){
	//statements
	}

if-else:It is extension of if. If statements in if fails,statements in else block are executed.


switch-case statement:It is also callesd a case statement,it is a mutiway branch with several choices.
switch is easier to implement than a series of if-else.

It begins with keyword switch, followed by an expression that equates to a no long integer value. 

ctrl+shift+f(to format your code)
  

2)Loop Statements:while,do-while,for

while:It is looping construct that executes a block of code while a condition is true.
Loop will never be executed if expression evaluates false.
while(<condition>){
//statements
}

Do-while:similar to while, except the test(evaluation of condition) is performed at end of loop instead of beginning.
Begins with keyword do,followed by stmts that makeup body of the loop.
Finally while and test expression completes do-while loop.
do
//statements
while(<condition>)

for:It is looping construct which can exceutes set of instructions a specified number of times
syntax:
for(<initialization>;<loop condition>;<increment/decrement expression>){
//statements
}
3)Transfer statements:continue,break

continue:It stops iteration of a loop(while,do,for) and causes execution to resume at top of nearest enclosing loop.
-Use continue when you don't want to execute the remaining statement in loop,but you don't want to exit loop by itself.

	2)4(2
	    4
	-------
	    0

Break:Transfers control out of enclosing loop(for,while,do-while or switch). use break when you want to jump immediately to
statement following enclosing control.

OOPS(Object Oriented Programming System) concepts in java.
Object:It is real world entity that has state and behaviour.
OOPs is methodology to design a program using classes and objects.It simplifies s/w development and maintenance by
providing some concepts
1)Object:Any entity that has state and behaviour.
Object is instance of a class.

Eg:Chair,pen,car etc..,
Every objects has three characteristics
1)state:It represents value(data) of an object
2)behaviour:It represents behaviour(functionality) of an object such as .
3)identity:Every object has an identity  implemented by unique ID(JVM)

2)Class: Collection of objects or blueprint of an object
Class is logical entity.
A class in java can contain
i)data members
ii)methods
iii)constructors
iv)blocks
v)class and interfaces


Constructor in java:
It is a special type of method used to initialize your object.
It gets invoked at the time of object creation.
It constructs the values or provides data for the object.

Rules for creating constructor
1)Constructor name is supposed to be same as your class name.
2)Constructors never have any return types not even void.

Types of constructors
1)Default(NO-ARG constructor):A constructor that have no parameters is known as default constructor.
Its purpose is to provide default values for your object.
If there is no constructor present in the class,JVM is going to provide a default constructor for your class internally.

2)Parameterized constructor:A constructor that have parameters is known as parameterized constructor.
It is used to provide different values to distinct objects


static keyword in java:
It is used for memory management.
we can apply this static keyword with variables,methods,blocks and nested class.

java static variable:
If you declare any variable as static ,it is known as static variable.
1)it can be used to refer common property of all objects:
2)static variable gets memory only once in class area at time of class loading.

static method:
If you apply static keyword with any method ,it is known as static method.
1)static method belongs to the class rather than object.
2)static method can be invoked without the need of creating object.
3)static method can access static datamembers and can change the  value of it.

static block:
It is used to initialize static data member.
It is going to get executed before main method

static{
}


InstanceInitializer block:
It is used to initialize the instance data member.
It run each time when object of the class is created.



3)Inheritance:It is a mechanism in which one object auquires all the properties na d behaviours of parent object.
It represents IS-A relationship,also known as parent-child relationship.(extends)
Extends keyword indicates that you are amaking a new class that derives from existing class.
use:
1)code reusability
2)method overriding

HAS-A(Aggregation):
If a class have an entity reference, it is known as aggregation.
Student has an entity reference address, relationship between student and address is student has-a address
 
4)Polymorphism:(having many forms)
when one task is performed in different ways.
By using 2 concepts
1)Method Overloading:
In a class if you have two or more methods with same name but having different no. of parameters or different type of 
parameters in it is known as method overloading in java. 

2)Method Overriding:If subclass has the same method as declared in the parent class, it isk known as method overriding in 
java.

rules:
method must have same name as in the parent class
method must have same parameters as in the parent class.
must be is-a relationship present(inheritance)

this:This is reference that refer to current object.
this with variable:this keyword can be used to refer current class instance variable.
this() you can invoke current class constructor.
this keyword is used to invoke current class method.


super:Super is reference of immediate parent class object.
super with variable:super keyword is used to refer immediate parent class instance variable.
super keyword is used to invoke parent classes method.
super() is used to invoke parent class default constructor.

5)Abstraction:
Hiding internal details and showing the functionality.
Abstract class and Interfaces we can acheive the data abstraction in java.

Abstract Class:
A class that is declared with abstract keyword.
It can have both abstract methods as well as concrete methods(non-abstract).
you can acheive 0 to 100%  abstraction by using abstract classes.
if you have any abstract method(method with no impementation) in a class then you need to declare that class as 
abstract class.
syntax:
abstract public class A{
}


Interface in java:
It is a blueprint of a class.
Interface contains only abstractmethods and static final variables.
By using interface you can acheive full abstraction(100%).
With the help of interfaces java supports multiple inheritance.
you will not be able to create object of interface.

Marker Interface:
An interface that have no member(variable/method) is known as marker interface.
They are used to provide some important information to the jvm so that JVM may perform some useful operations.
EG:Serializable,Cloneable,Remote....


Relationship between two interfaces is 
eg:Interface A extends Interface B

Relationship between class and interface is 
eg:class Test implements A

Final keyword:Final keyword in java is used to restrict the user.
This can be used in many contexts
1)final variable:If you make any variable as final, you cannot change the value of final variable(It becomes constant)
2)final method:If you make any method as final,you cannot override that method.
3)final class:If you make any class as final,you cannot inherit that class.


6)Encapsulation:

















